README.md, before:

# algorand-sandbox

Creates a Algorand private network including Algod and Indexer REST APIs.

This work is based on the original [Algorand Sandbox](https://github.com/algorand/sandbox), but modified so that it runs directly under Docker/Docker-Compose under a Windows terminal.

To use this on Windows you need [Docker installed under WSL2](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).

This Sandbox is also deployable to a Kubernetes cluster, allowing your team to host their Sandbox(s) in the cloud.

## Getting this repo

Clone the repo:

```bash
meta git clone git@github.com:hone-labs/algorand-sandbox.git
```

## Important end points

- Algo-proxy: http://localhost:4000
- Algod REST API: http://localhost:4001
- Indexer REST API: http://localhost:8980

## Running the backend

To bring up all services:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

Doing a full build takes quite a while because it fetches fresh code code from the Algorand code repositories.

You can omit `--build` to start quickly from cached images:

```bash
docker compose up
```

To shutdown:

```bash
docker compose down
```

## Testing APIs

Open requests (.http) files in `./api-tester`. 

Have VS Code REST Client installed.

Run individual requests to test the local sandbox.

## Shell into the Algod container

```bash
docker exec -it algorand-sandbox-algod /bin/bash
````

To work with shared files:

```bash
cd /shared
```

Once you have a shell into algod you can run goals commands against it, like:

```bash
goal account list
```

## Changing to "dev mode"

Open `docker-compose.yml`.

Change this line:

```
ARG TEMPLATE="/tmp/images/algod/template.json"
```

To use the dev template:

```
ARG TEMPLATE="/tmp/images/algod/dev-template.json"
```

Restart:

```
docker compose down
docker compose up
```

Commit message:

Added a hardcoded genesis file that creates an account with a known address and mnemonic.

README.md, after:

# algorand-sandbox

Creates a Algorand private network including Algod and Indexer REST APIs.

This work is based on the original [Algorand Sandbox](https://github.com/algorand/sandbox), but modified so that it runs directly under Docker/Docker-Compose under a Windows terminal.

To use this on Windows you need [Docker installed under WSL2](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).

This Sandbox is also deployable to a Kubernetes cluster, allowing your team to host their Sandbox(s) in the cloud.

## Getting this repo

Clone the repo:

```bash
meta git clone git@github.com:hone-labs/algorand-sandbox.git
```

## Important end points

- Algo-proxy: http://localhost:4000
- Algod REST API: http://localhost:4001
- Indexer REST API: http://localhost:8980

## Running the backend

To bring up all services:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

Doing a full build takes quite a while because it fetches fresh code code from the Algorand code repositories.

You can omit `--build` to start quickly from cached images:

```bash
docker compose up
```

To shutdown:

```bash
docker compose down
```

## Testing APIs

Open requests (.http) files in `./api-tester`. 

Have VS Code REST Client installed.

Run individual requests to test the local sandbox.

## Shell into the Algod container

```bash
docker exec -it algorand-sandbox-algod /bin/bash
````

To work with shared files:

```bash
cd /shared
```

Once you have a shell into algod you can run goals commands against it, like:

```bash
goal account list
```

## Changing to "normal mode"

By default the Sandbox starts in "dev mode" which is way faster than "normal mode" because it creates block per transaction.

Here's how to change to "normal mode":

Open `docker-compose.yml`.

Change this line:

```
ARG TEMPLATE="/tmp/images/algod/dev-template.json"
```

To use the normal template:

```
ARG TEMPLATE="/tmp/images/algod/template.json"
```

Restart:

```
docker compose down
docker compose up
```

## The faucet account

By default the Sandbox starts with a "Faucet account" with a huge amount of Algos (courtesy of a custom genesis file). 

You can use the faucet to fund whatever test accounts you care to create.

### Account details:
- Address: SMG6FYYEOJV76DABQHS2TMNLQBZWXXVAUVTSL2PT4QCM43AMRJ4NYBHFKU
- Mnemonic: blind fan example frog garage repair unable fuel gorilla key inch chaos rather segment enter eager emerge coffee reveal crime fence harbor suspect absent barely
